# Version 0.1 - The Beginning

Hello, world! This is the first ever blog post by Musings.

Musings is a publishing tool for blogs and news-style websites.
It is [open source](https://github.com/subtributary/musings) if you want to check it out.
It isn't impressive yet, but you will love it when it's done.

I will post a progress update every month until version 1.0 is released.

## Why another blog tool?

My most beloved client needed a website that would be translated into six languages.
That is when I realized how *broken* localization is in .NET and most other tech stacks.
Musings will solve that problem for me.

Here are the features that I need:
1. First-class internationalization (i18n).
2. Excessive quality for my clients.
3. Customizable. Don't want a blog? Don't make a blog.

I want to be careful about adding too many features, 
because I don't want this to turn into a complicated and fragile multitool.
Instead, I want it to be a flexible foundation to build on top of.

## What's New?

Version 0.1 brings basic content rendering and image serving.
That was my goal for this version.
Goal met.

## What's Next?

This is my tentative plan, but it may change as development continues:

Version 0.2 will engrave i18n into the very bones of Musings.
It will never be removed, it can never be disabled, and it will always work.
Serve your content in as many languages as you want.

Version 0.3 will focus on accessibility.
This will include adding support for image metadata and other prerequisites,
so it is a bigger job than it at first seems.

Version 0.4 will add caching, indexing, and searching.

Version 0.5 will be polish and documentation.

Version 0.6 will add support for plugins.

Will the following version be 1.0? That would be exciting, wouldn't it?
