<!--
Title: Version 0.1 - The Beginning
Published: 2026-03-26
-->
# Version 0.1 - The Beginning

Hello, world! This is the first ever blog post by Musings.

Musings is a publishing tool for blogs and news-style websites.
It is [open source](https://github.com/subtributary/musings) if you want to check it out.

I will post a progress update every month until version 1.0 is released.

## Why another blog tool?

Last year, a client that I care deeply about needed a website that would be translated into six languages.
That is when I realized how *broken* localization is in most tech stacks,
especially when content, templates, and routing are all treated separately.
Musings will not have that problem.

Here are the features that I need:
1. First-class internationalization (i18n).
2. High quality for my clients.
3. Customizable. If you don't want a blog, you can build something else.

I want to be careful about adding too many features,
because I don't want Musings to become a complicated, fragile multitool.
Instead, I want it to be a flexible foundation to build on top of.
Developers can take Musings and turn it into whatever they need.

## What's New?

Version 0.1 is the start of Musings.

In addition to defining the initial project scope and architecture, these features were added in this version:

1. Added html templates to define page layout.
2. Added markdown rendering for user content.
3. Added image serving for user content.
4. Laid the groundwork for internationalization.

Internationalization (i18n) is not fully realized in this version.
It will be a primary focus of version 0.2.

## What's Next?

Version 0.2 will focus on internationalization (i18n), localization (l10n), and accessibility.

Version 0.3 will focus on indexing and searching.

Version 0.4 will add support for plugins.

Version 0.5 will focus on polishing and testing.

Version 0.6 will be a minor update with changes requested by supporting projects.

Version 0.7 will be a minor update with changes requested by a derivative project.

Version 1.0 will be the first stable release.
